Hi, thank you for joining me today. I really appreciate that. I'm a staff engineer at
Appsilon, the company that brought you the Rhino framework for building Shiny applications.
But today I want to share with you a story, a case study of a TARS application. I'm a delivery
manager at that project and this is one of our most complex apps that we built together with
one of the Hollywood film studios together. Let me start with the question, how does the
film industry work? So on a basic level you might imagine that the most important part
is someone in front of the camera, actor, actress, someone behind the director and they are shooting
the scenes and this is the crucial part of the moviemaking process. It might look like this
or like this, so there are some visual effects happening in the background but still it's about
being in front or behind the camera. If you are a little bit more into the topic, you are probably
aware that this is a really complex industry involving thousands of employees with a lot of
studios, pre-production work, props creation, post-production and thousands of people involved.
However, what I learned during working with this film studio and building this and other projects
together is that the most important part in the moviemaking process is the data and reports.
Here is just an example of a nearly 50 pages report that they are building manually every
month but they used to be building before we joined them. So what is exactly our case with
this film studio? They have over 20 departments, you know departments like creative, music,
post-production, visual effects and they are working on around 300 productions. They are
reporting and collecting data about around 300 productions at the same time that are on the
different stages. So they might be just the ideas or they are already in production, different stages
or they are released and they keep reporting about them. Some are even abandoned but they still need
to see those in their reports. And they used to build around 60 manually generated reports
mostly to coordinate the work between those departments so that one department knows that
okay this is our time to take over the work and continue the process of moviemaking because the
other department is ready with their work. Of course they were using some templates,
we're using the previous version of the report but still this is a lot of work happening.
That's fine, okay, moviemaking requires a lot of work but then in the end they are delivering us
the great pieces of cinema. But the point is that no one was happy with the result.
So with those reports that they put a lot of efforts, a lot of hours into this process,
they were not satisfied with the process. And this is the moment when we joined them.
And let me tell you a little bit more about the reasons
behind this and how we helped them to solve them.
So with these reports there was no single source of truth. So the data was coming from different
databases, sources, and you could never be sure that what you are seeing is actually up to date
and this is the latest value for a particular field in your report.
There was no confidentiality and the reports were mostly shared via email and because it was a lot
of manual work they kind of like tried to really put everything in a single report and shared it
with everyone because that requires less working for them. However it wasn't a super efficient way
to share sometimes sensitive data. For the same reason there was no customization of the content
and people that were interested only in some productions they had to go through the whole
report about everything to just find the information that is useful for them. Again of
course they could create their reports for that particular production but one extra manual report
to be added. And there was no clarity about those dependencies between the
the departments. So if you are interested in changes for a particular production you need to
open this email every month, find a report, 50 pages, find this information like okay nothing
changed, I can wait more. Not super user-friendly way to learn about the updates.
Okay so the tool that we created together with the film studio is called TARS and this is not an
acronym. TARS is a robot from the interstellar movie that you might have seen. It's a complicated one, I
don't understand the full plot but the robot was helping those astronauts to navigate, to do some
heavy calculations during their travels. So this is quite accurate name for the tool that we delivered.
So what exactly it is? Right now this is a single source of all film data for all those
productions that are ongoing. So it's a single place that both people that are editing the data
will go there and use a really nice front end to upload the changes.
And for the data consumers this is a single place that they will come to get their data.
Of course this is connecting different data sources but right now from the user perspective
and for the report's perspective this is the only source of truth. This is also an automated report
generation, a feature that is quite complex and I will tell you more about this also from the
technical perspective how it operates. But right now all those manual reports and many more are
automatically created with a given schedule and distributed for all the recipients interested.
Also this is a tool that solves the access rights. So both on a level of the application, so there
might be admins of the application and regular users as usual and this is like pretty simple.
You can solve that with POSIT Connect groups for example. But this is also controlling the access
to specific titles and even the fields so that people will, when they enter the TARS application,
they only see the data that is relevant to them and nothing else.
And this is truly a game changer for the film studio of how they are working with data and
reports. So if there is any justice in this world the next Academy Awards should be something like that.
But I'm not expecting that.
But why would you care? I bet that not many of you are actually from the film industry.
No one maybe. However those issues might sound really familiar with the data quality,
managing access, efficient reporting and you probably face them in your organization as well.
Just briefly searching, I found tons of reports about that. This is a really common problem
but this is also what we spot at Appsilon. This is a really common case. Optimizing such processes
is a usual case for our clients.
I would love to tell you that you pick Shiny and this is the solution but of course it is
not that simple. The project at this scale that is used across the whole organization
with thousands of employees with multiple departments requires much more and the skills
span across product ownership, design, software development of course.
This might be a good moment for me to appreciate the whole team both on the Appsilon side
and the client side for their great work.
Shiny is a technology layer on top of all those skills required to deliver this project.
And that might sound surprising during this conference but anything else could be used.
For this case and for a tool that is modifying the processes on the corporate level like this,
there is no strict requirement for actually Shiny or R to be used. That project could be
done with any other technology. However, my point and my takeaway message for you
and if there is only one thing that you will remember of this talk, I want you to remember
this that Shiny can deliver such production ready tool. And it might even not come to your mind
because usually it is considered and this is what I heard from my colleagues working with other
technologies that this is some data scientists can play around with Shiny to build some simple
tool to show their findings in a more interactive way. But what we are proving at Appsilon for years
and with this is a perfect example that this can be actually a tool on the corporate level
doing anything that is required by the business.
OK, so now I would like to present you a little bit more solutions in TARS that are making this really
useful for our client. This is complex, this is a long project with a lot of people involved
and there are some solutions that I won't get a lot into the details both on the technical side
and on the user experience side. Just recently we introduced this Confluence integration for example
that allows our non-coding product owner to edit the help page using the editing tool in Confluence
and this is automatically and directly reflected inside the Shiny application.
Ask me later about those. What I would like to tell you more about today is this report generation
that I called the TARS superpower.
And to tell you how it works I will go step by step on the report creation process and will tell
you details about its capabilities and how it was implemented using POSIT tools and Shiny
capabilities. So first step is to select titles for your report and this is quite interesting
because in the beginning you have this step that you can select either by filter criteria
or specific titles. So if you are interested only in one production, let's say the new
Batman movie, you are selecting specific titles and every week you can get updates on your
Batman. However it is not the usual case. Most often our users are interested to select titles
by the criteria. So for example they can pick that they are interested in the either like green
so like approved titles or they can select abandoned titles and then the report automatically
will select the titles for the report based on those criteria. So it might be the case that
someone in the top management made a decision that the title is abandoned. They won't continue
working on that and now with TARS as a report creation for abandoned titles you don't need to
find this information through some different channels. It will be automatically included in
your report for abandoned titles. Okay, so the second step is to configure your report and this
is to select the fields that you will include. So as you might recall I said earlier that the big
problem was that the reports are super general including all information sent to all the
recipients. Now you can make your report very specific. Select only the fields from a department
that you are interested in reporting for your selected titles. So the reports might be really
covering only that you are interested.
Okay and the first step and maybe the most important is automation of the report generation
and scheduling. So how it works is that you can set your reports to be scheduled and you are picking
how often it will be repeated and what is the start and end date. Similarly as you are setting
the recurring event in the calendar. And with this schedule your reports will be generated and
automatically distributed to your recipients. How it works in the technical perspective.
I won't get very deep but for you to understand it better.
There is an auxiliary tool called Scheduled Reports Generator. This is a fancy name for something
that as you can see is an R Markdown report deployed to the Connect. And this report is
is set to be repeated daily. And every day what it does it loops through the list of all
saved reports and checks okay which report I should generate today.
So this is like just output because this is not like a user-facing application auxiliary tool.
And for the 25th of July it found four reports that should be generated that day according to
what is the schedule of that report. Okay and what is happening for those reports.
The data is snapshot as it is true on this particular day when they should be generated.
The data both about which titles should be included if you are using filter criteria.
And what is the state of your field values on this particular day.
This data is snapshotted and saved on the other database. And this is the trick that
the reports are not actually generated as a PDF or Excel files that will be really
challenged to store. But we only snapshot the data that is required to generate those reports
on the user demand. And from the user perspective the new report is added to their list of reports
available in the TARS. And that one is generated by me so I have extra options. The other one is
general that is shared by me as a recipient. So I can get this but I cannot edit, copy,
or archive or even delete as I can with my POSIT.conf report. And there is also a download
option. And this is the moment when the report is actually generated in the PDF form. And this
is reaching out to your snapshot of the data that was true at the day when the report should be
generated. And it does not matter that you are coming back after your vacation in two weeks and
now you have no access to the data that was true at the moment when it should be.
The old versions are of course archived and you have only the newest one available.
Okay so this is a really powerful tool. The last step is that reports can be shared with
the select recipients. Here for example I'm selecting my friend Agustin, leading developer
in this project, to share the report as an editor. And he will see the same report available
in his TARS and he will get email notification that the new version of report is read.
Okay so to sum up, what is the current state? The TARS is used by hundreds of users
to create custom reports to save hundreds of hours. And if next time you go to cinema, the
movie will be actually created using the TARS if this is coming from that film studio.
And the thing that I wanted you to remember is that the corporate level processes can be
optimized with Shiny. There are no limits here when it comes to build a really production level software.
Thank you very much. You can find me here or near the Absalon booth
and I will be happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
All right so we're actually right on time. So I guess the only quick question I have for you is
did you meet any famous movie stars while working on this project?
No, but right after the conference I'm actually going to Los Angeles,
so I hope I will meet some during this visit.